
## §4 群的同态，正规子群，商群，可解群
### 3.  设 $F$ 是一个域, $\sigma$ 是 $GL_n(F)$ 到 $F^{*} $ 的一个映射: $\sigma(A) = |A|, \forall A \in GL_n(F)$. 则 $GL_n(F) / SL_n(F) \cong F^{*}$. <a id=  1.4.3 ></a>   
群同态基本定理

---

### 10. $D_n'=\langle \sigma^{2}   \rangle   $ (where $ D_n = \langle \sigma, \tau \mid \sigma^n = \tau^2 = I, \tau \sigma \tau = \sigma^{-1} \rangle $)

 Since $\sigma^{i} \sigma \sigma^{-i} = \sigma^2$, $\tau \sigma \tau^{-1} = (\tau \sigma \tau^{-1})^2 = (\sigma^{-1})^2 \in \langle \sigma^2 \rangle$, thus $\langle \sigma^2 \rangle \triangleleft D_n$.

$|\sigma^2| = \frac{|\sigma|}{(|\sigma|, 2)} = \frac{n}{(n, 2)}$.  Therefore, $|D_n / \langle \sigma^2 \rangle| = \frac{2n}{(n, 2)} / \frac{n}{(n, 2)} = 2(n, 2)\in \{ 2,4 \}$. It is well known that second-order and fourth-order groups are both Abelian. Hence, $D_n / \langle \sigma^2 \rangle$ is an Abelian group.  Thus, $D_n' \subseteq \langle \sigma^2 \rangle$.  Since $\sigma^2 = \sigma \tau \sigma^{-1} \tau^{-1} \in D_n'$, thus $\langle \sigma^2 \rangle \subseteq D_n'$.  Therefore, $D_n' = \langle \sigma^2 \rangle$.    (When $n$ is odd, $|\sigma^2| = n = |\sigma|$, thus $D_n' = \langle \sigma^2 \rangle = \langle \sigma \rangle$.)

---

### 12.  $S_n'=A_n$, $n \geq 3$。
Since $[S_n : A_n] = 2$, thus $A_n \triangleleft S_n$, and $S_n / A_n$ is an Abelian group.  Therefore, $S_n' \subseteq A_n$.

$A_n$ can be generated by 3-cycles, and for every 3-cycle $(ijk)$, and we have

$(ijk) = (ijk)^{-2} = (ikj)^2 = [(ij)(ik)]^2 = (ij)(ik)(ij)^{-1}(ik)^{-1} \in S_n'$, Therefore, $A_n \subseteq S_n'$. 

Hence, $S_n' = A_n$.

---

### 13.  $A_n' = A_n$, $n \geq 5$ 
When $ n \geq 5 $, for any 3-cycle swap $(a_1, a_2, a_3)$ in $A_n$, define $\sigma = (a_1 a_3 a_4 a_2 a_5) \in A_n$, $\tau = (a_1 a_5 a_2) \in A_n$, then

$$ \sigma \tau \sigma^{-1} \tau^{-1} = (a_3 a_1 a_5)(a_1 a_2 a_3) = (a_1 a_2 a_3). $$

Thus, $(a_1 a_2 a_3) \in A_{n}'$. Since $A_n$ can be generated by 3-cycles, $A_n \subseteq A_n'$. Therefore, $A_n' = A_n$.
**Notes:** When $ n \geq 5 $, $S_n' = A_n$, $A_n' = A_n$. Then $S_n$ is non-solvable, $n\ge 5$ .


---

### 14. 写出 $S_4$ 的导群列，由此看出，$S_4$ 是可解群。
Because $ S_4' = A_4 $, $ A_4' = V $, and $ V' = \{ (1) \} $, it follows that $ S_4^{(3)} = \{ (1) \} $. Hence, $ S_4 $ is solvable.

---

### 17. $A_n $ is simple group, $n\ge 5$
$A_n$ can be generated by 3-cycles. That is, for any $a, b \in \{1, 2, ..., n\}$ where $a \neq b$, take a 3-cycle $(ijk)$. Then $(ijk) = (ik)(jk)$.

$(ij)(ka) = (ai)(aj)(bj)(ka)(ai)(aj)(bj)^{-1}$
$= (ai)(aj)(ab)(bj)(ka)(bj)^{-1}(ab)^{-1}(aj)^{-1}(ai)^{-1}$
$= (abi)(bja)(abk)(bja)^{-1} = (abi)(abj)(abk)(abi)(abj)^{-1}$;
$(ajk) = (jka) = (ajb)(akb)(ajb)^{-1} = (abj)^{-1}(abk)^{-1}(abj)$;
$(bjk) = (kbj) = (abk)(abj)(abk)^{-1}$.

Therefore, for any $a, b \in \{1, 2, ..., n\}$, $a \neq b$, $A_n$ is generated by the set $M = \{(abl) | 1 \le l \le n, l \neq a, l \neq b\}$, i.e., $A_n = \langle M \rangle$.

Take any normal subgroup $N \neq \{ (1) \}$ of $A_n$, we want to prove $N = A_n$.

**Case 1:** Suppose $N$ contains a 3-cycle $(abc)$, then for any $k \in \{1, 2, ..., n\}$ and $k \neq a, b, c$, we have
$(abk) = (cbk)(acb)(cbk)^{-1} \in N$.

Since $M \subseteq N$, then $\langle M \rangle \subseteq N$. But $A_n \subseteq N$. Therefore, $N = A_n$.

**Case 2:** Suppose $N$ contains a permutation $\sigma$, and the decomposition of $\sigma$ into transpositions has at least one $r$-cycle, where $r \ge 4$, i.e., $\sigma = (a_1 a_2 \dots a_r) \dots$. Take $\tau = (a_1 a_2 a_3) \in A_n$, then $\sigma_1 = \tau \sigma \tau^{-1} \in N$. And $\sigma^{-1} (\tau \sigma \tau^{-1}) = \sigma^{-1} \sigma_1 = \sigma^{-1} [(a_1 a_2 \dots a_r) \dots] (a_1 a_2 a_3) [(a_1 a_2 \dots a_r) \dots]^{-1} (a_1 a_2 a_3)^{-1}$
$= \sigma_1^{-1} (a_1 a_2 a_3) \sigma_1 (a_1 a_2 a_3)^{-1} = \sigma_1^{-1} \sigma_1 (a_1 a_2 a_3) (a_1 a_2 a_3)^{-1} = (a_1 a_3 a_r) \in N$. By Case 1, $N = A_n$.

**Case 3:** Suppose $N$ contains a permutation $\sigma$, and the decomposition of $\sigma$ into transpositions has at least two 3-cycles, i.e., $\sigma = (a_1 a_2 a_3)(a_4 a_5 a_6) \dots$. Take $\tau = (a_2 a_3 a_4) \in A_n$, then $\sigma_1 = \tau \sigma \tau^{-1} \in N$.
$\sigma^{-1} (\tau \sigma \tau^{-1}) = \sigma^{-1} \sigma_1 = \sigma^{-1} [(a_1 a_2 a_3)(a_4 a_5 a_6) \dots] (a_2 a_3 a_4) [(a_1 a_2 a_3)(a_4 a_5 a_6) \dots]^{-1} (a_2 a_3 a_4)^{-1}$
$= \sigma_1^{-1} \sigma_1 [(a_1 a_2 a_3)^{-1} (a_1 a_3 a_4) (a_4 a_5 a_6) ] (a_1 a_2 a_4)^{-1}$
$= (a_3 a_1 a_4)(a_1 a_2 a_4 a_6)$,

$(a_1 a_4 a_4 a_2 a_3) \in N$. By Case 2, $N = A_n$.

**Case 4:** Suppose $N$ contains a permutation $\sigma$, and the decomposition of $\sigma$ into transpositions is $\sigma = (a_1 a_2)(a_3 a_1) \sigma_1$, where $\sigma_1$ is a product of some disjoint transpositions. From $\sigma^2 = (a_1 a_3 a_2)$. From $(a_1 a_3 a_2) \in N$. By Case 1, $N = A_n$.

**Case 5:** Suppose $N$ contains a permutation $\sigma$ which is an even number of disjoint transpositions, i.e., $\sigma = (a_1 a_2)(a_3 a_4) \sigma_1$, where $\sigma_1$ is an even number of disjoint transpositions. Take $\tau = (a_1 a_2 a_3) \in A_n$, then $\sigma^{-1} (\tau \sigma \tau^{-1}) \in N$.

$\sigma^{-1} (\tau \sigma \tau^{-1}) = \sigma_1^{-1} \sigma_1 [(a_1 a_2)(a_3 a_4)] (a_1 a_2 a_3) [(a_1 a_2)(a_3 a_4)] \sigma_1 (a_1 a_2 a_3)^{-1}$
$= \sigma_1^{-1} \sigma_1 (a_3 a_4)(a_1 a_2 a_3)(a_1 a_2)(a_3 a_4)^{-1}$
$= (a_1 a_3 a_4 a_2) = (a_2 a_4)$,

Because $\gamma = (a_1 a_3)(a_2 a_4) \in N$. For $n \ge 5$, there exists $b \in \{1, 2, ..., n\}$, and $b \neq a_1, a_2, a_3$, take $\delta = (a_3 a_1 b)$, then $\gamma^{-1} (\delta \gamma \delta^{-1}) \in N$.

$\gamma^{-1} (\delta \gamma \delta^{-1}) = (\gamma^{-1} \delta \gamma) \delta^{-1} = (a_3 a_1 b)(a_1 ba_3) = (a_1 a_3 b)$.

Therefore, $(a_1 a_3 b) \in N$. By Case 1, $N = A_n$.

In summary, $N = A_n$. Therefore, $A_n$ is simple.

---

### 15. 如果置换群 $G$ 含有奇置换，则 $G$ 必有指数为 2 的子群。<a id=  1.4.15 ></a>   
Let $\psi$ be a mapping from $G$ to the group of 2nd roots of unity $U_2$. $\psi$ maps even permutations to $1$ and odd permutations to $-1$, then $\psi$ is surjective. Since the product of two even permutations is an even permutation, the product of two odd permutations is an even permutation, the product of an even permutation and an odd permutation is an odd permutation, and the product of an odd permutation and an even permutation is an odd permutation, therefore $\psi$ preserves the operation. Thus $\psi$ is a surjective homomorphism from $G$ to $U_2$. Therefore $G/\text{Ker}\psi \cong U_2$. Hence $G$ has a subgroup of index 2, namely $\text{Ker}\psi$. From the definition of $\psi$, we know that $\text{Ker}\psi$ is the subgroup of $G$ consisting of all even permutations.


---





### 16. 设 $\sigma$ 是群 $G$ 到群 $G'$ 的一个满同态，记 $K = \text{Ker } \sigma$。设 $H' \triangleleft G'$，令 $\sigma^{-1}(H') \stackrel{\text{def}}{=} \{g \in G \mid \sigma(g) \in H'\}$。证明：(1) $\sigma^{-1}(H') \triangleleft G$, 且 $\sigma^{-1}(H') \supseteq K$;    (2) $H' \mapsto \sigma^{-1}(H')$ 是 $G'$ 的子群集合到 $G$ 的包含 $K$ 的子群集合的一个双射。

---

